# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (April 22, 2021)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** David Honey, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, Jim Amsden, Ian Green

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2021/2021-04-08.md

## Agenda

- [x] Shapes prefix
- [x] OSLC paging discussion

## Minutes

### TRS

Jim likes the wiki Primer, we postpone the discussion till Nick comes back.

### SoUs

Statements needed from KTH and IBM for Core and Query.

**Statement for Query came from Koneksys, huge thanks to Axel!**

QM is blocked on the last SoU.

### OSLC paging

**Use-case first**: OSLC Client wants to consume QC results in a paged fashion (and show them). It should be possible to navigate between pages (we'd like to know ). We are interested in a number of "primary items" that will be rendered. When we get all the data from the first page, it shal be complete to render.

If we just return URIs, there is no issue (Jim). If we just have a URI property and we only select one property, we are still not guaranteed that:

1. We will get N child URIs if we ask for N items.
2. We cannot interpret the results till we consume the last page.

Otherwise we have some properties with a `select`.

Jim: Aim is to consume limited number of things over a high-latency link.

**The use-case is valid.**

Andrew: we may want get 100 SPs per SPC page, 100 CEs per TRS CL page. Jim: may not be as important as we think, no big deal til today. David: custom APIs/extensions are used to do it today. Andrew: I think this a big reason enough.

Jim: containers should allow to count the number of items. David: no, the last page may return the number of items in the container.

Jim: how about using bnodes to represent LDPC members? David: no go. For example, 3 CRs are returned by the QC. Statements must be done on the subject of the each CR. David: won't help, we only have today the size in triples.

If a server interprets maxSize not as the number of triples but as number of resources, this is not compliant.

Proposal: add an "OSLC Resource Paging" and define it on the resource level. The current paging remains unchanged.

We should start with with a study how https://www.w3.org/TR/ldp-paging/ approaches the problem. From the spec:

> LDP Paging defines max-triple-count, max-member-count, and max-kbyte-count as new parameters on the existing HTTP Prefer request header's return=representation preference [RFC7240];

David: we should look into the spec but it won't solve the problem of nested resources. We need to make sure the graph is complete in the response, even if the resource has to duplicated across pages.

---

Many OSLC QC spec parts are optional. How can a client discover which QC capabilities are supported?
