# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Sep 17, 2020)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Andrew Berezovskyi, Jim Amsden, Nick Crossley, Ian Green, Jad El-khoury.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2020/2020-09-10.md

## Agenda

- [x] Pick a scribe - Nick
- [x] Update attendees list above
- [x] Open-source SysML code
- [x] Follow up on RM publication https://github.com/oasis-open-projects/administration/issues/12
- [x] Check on AM PSD publication
- [x] Discussion on QM
- [x] Core
- [x] Check ballot https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/oslc-op-pgb/responses?pollid=16521 (potentially on Friday)
- [x] Chet on vacation next week
- [x] Get more votes on https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/oslc-op-pgb/topic/vote_on_oslc_query_version/76871816?p=,,,20,0,0,0::recentpostdate%2Fsticky,,,20,2,0,76871816
- [ ] Publish these minutes under https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/tree/master/minutes/2020

## Minutes

Open-source SysML code: Jim & Andrew discussed license terms for Lyo Designer and the derivative works it generates. OSLC OP agreed to license everything under Apache license. Currently, generated code is dual licensed - either Apache or BSD (latter is more permissive). Jim wants a license that will also allow OSLC OP to contribute OSLC REST Services PSM (Swagger API specs) to OMG. Andrew has asked Jamie about this. Option 1 can we publish under EPL + BSD; option 2 also publish server code under LGPL.

Andrew checked into RM publication - no progress yet (vacation delays?).

AM ready to be tagged and published - again awaiting OASIS.

QM has the issue with oslc:valueShape - Andrew will investigate and see if valueShape is really the right thing to use here, or if it should just use oslc:range. (issue 370).

Jim provided some notes on shapes/values, etc.:
oslc:valueType - oslc:ResourceValueType	The type of values of the defined property. Resource or Literal/XSD type

oslc:range - specifies expected, but not required property object type (class from the vocabulary terms) RDF type

ResourceShape for the RDF type that is in the oslc:range.

oslc:valueShape - a ResourceShape that describes or constrains the property object values, the instance used in the target of this reference. 

oslc:allowedValue, oslc:allowedValues - specifies the allowed values of a property (often used for enumerations, values should be compatible with oslc:valueType)

We are positioning QM changes as errata to be added to COS 01.

Core: Chet just emailed Andrew that the poll closed, and they are reviewing the package.

Still need more votes for query - Jim will ping Axel and Bill.

Andrew wants to address the IANA application for the .well-known URI before we apply for Core COS. Jim is not convinced it's useful. Issue 157.

No progress on Config Mgmt or TRS; Nick has restarted work on old vocabs (issue 265 - https://github.com/oslc-op/website/issues/265).
