# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Jan 09, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2019/2019-12-19.md


## Agenda

- Git workflow
- Plan for 2020
- OSLC in SysML
- OSLC Query & SPARQL

## Minutes

### Git workflow

- Changes shall be made on a new branch
- Branch name should follow the pattern `b%number%-%topic%`, where `%number%` is a Github issue number and `%topic%` is a description in just a few keywords without spaces or special chars (like a variable name) of the change introduced.
- Commits can include unfinished work, because they are not pushed automatically.
- When you push the branch with all the new commits, you shall create a Pull Request. All code must be reviewed by someone else before it's merged to the master branch.
- If you need more time to work on the PR and not ready for others to review, just create a Draft Pull Request.
- Test changes locally, follow [these](https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs#getting-started) instructions to set up a local server.

### Plan for 2020

**Publish Core and top 3 specs as full standards**:

- OSLC Core Management (Jim)
- Requirements Management (Jad)
- Quality Management (Andrew)
- OSLC Query (David)
- Change Management

Secondary in terms of priority:

- TRS
- Architecture
- Configuration Management

Andrew:

- Relevance (mainly OSLC Actions missing and consider WebComponents to evolve Delegated UIs).
- At least one external implementor for OSLC 2 still supporting it to review OSLC 3.

Steps from Jim:

- Get the closest rev. ready
- Get the 

See [OASIS Open Projects Handbook](https://www.oasis-open.org/oasis-open-projects-handbook#progression-of-work)

### OSLC in SysML

We should look into supporting SysML v2 in 2020. CC Axel and Gray.

### OSLC Query & SPARQL

- Many products for RDF are not mature, others are very expensive.
- SPARQL can be used to launch super expensive queries.
- [Linked Data Fragments](https://linkeddatafragments.org/concept/) is a new research approach a bit lighter than SPARQL while retaining most power.
- OSLC Query was earlier used to query incoming links. 

## Next actions

- Use [OSLC Github Board](https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/projects/2) to keep us focused on the top deliverables every meeting.
- Prioritise issues for every top deliverable

