# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Feb 13, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Nick Crossley.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2020/2020-01-16.md

## Agenda

Main items:

- [x] Vocabulary consistency check Nick
- [x] AM spec discussion going forward

Follow up:

- [x] Jim to begin work on Core PS04 (start by an EPIC & milestone)
- [x] Andrew to begin work on QM PS02 (start by an EPIC & milestone)
- [ ] David to begin work on the Query PSD (start by an EPIC & milestone)
- [ ] Jad to begin work on RM PS (start by an EPIC & milestone)
- [ ] Nick to begin work on CfgM (start by an EPIC & milestone)

Misc:

- [x] Jim to add link to the Core PSD04 on https://open-services.net/specifications/
- [ ] Jad to add link to the RM PSD on https://open-services.net/specifications/
- [x] Andrew to deploy website updates
- [ ] Nick to suggest the next step on the Configuration-Context header IANA application
- [x] Jim to consult legal re: PGB statements on the website and reply to Jory
- [x] Andrew to update the redirect
- [x] Andrew to update the website

## Minutes

### Core PSD05 vs PS04 /Jim/

Nick suggests none of the work items in https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/303 are substantive and do not warrant another PSD. Asked Chet to confirm.

References do not need to be fixed ASAP, will defer until after the PS.

### AM spec changes to unblock the progress /Jim/

Initial considerations:

- Jim assumed AM spec would not move to the AM 3.0 after the discussions with relevant people, which turned out be incorrect.
- Rational Design Managed / Rhapsody Model Manager made some assumptions and it would not be desirable to introduce breaking changes in the specs.
- OMG introduced SysML v2 with Services API and Jim was not sure what implications this would have on the AM spec. 

RDM/RMM/SysMLv2 all differ in how they store and implement SysML models:
- **RDM** uses MOF->RDF transform to expose objects through RDF in a limited fashion (bespoke RDF model, inspired by the MOF2RDF spec from OMG that never got completed) 
- **RMM** uses _ArchitectureElement_ representation for any UML/SysML elements with a number of name-value pairs for representing properties as well as _link_ and _aggregate_ link properties. Aggregates follow UML containment (parenthood) relationship while Links are used for the rest of the link types. RDF representation of these elements is radically different from RDM's one. _ArchitectureElement_ is a subclass of the `oslc_am:Resource`.
- **SysMLv2** has yet another model of UML with three elements: Project, Element, Relationship. All of them can have name-value pair props, all links are made through _associative objects_. This is the key difference: RMM is using properties while SysMLv2 uses explicit objects for representing links and relationships. AM 2.0 does have the `LinkType` resource but it did not get sufficient adoption; we considered deprecating it in the 3.0 spec (it is deprecated in the current draft).

Jim's take:

> As AM does not specify the internal structure of AM elements, these differences are not important for the ability to integrate tools in the AM domain. Tools will be able to links to the resources in any way.

Nick argues that a practical implementation would still require the knowledge of how linking was implemented in a particular tool.

Original AM spec did not declare any properties on `LinkType` resource to particular AM types; it was expected the tools would define the supported kinds of links. Both RDM and RMM expose resources with the [properties from AM 3.0](https://archive.open-services.net/wiki/architecture-management/OSLC-Architecture-Management-Specification-Version-3.0/index.html#Resource_Resource) (see under the SysML properties and below).

Nick draws attention to a danger of including properties under the `dm` Jazz namespace in the OSLC specs, especially from the namespace management perspective. The updates depend on the internal review process for the vocabs. It may be difficult to ensure terms under the Jazz namespace evolve in a way that agrees with the aims / approaches of the OSLC OP.

Andrew suggested to define identical OSLC properties and ask properties under the Jazz namespace to add a `rdfs:subPropertyOf` declaration. 

### Namespace discussion

Nick to determine next actions on me and himself in the issues. Rough items:

- update the RDF files (Andrew can produce all RDF formats for a single original source)
    - version control them!
- re-generate HTML pages for the vocabs from the XSLT
- deploy the new pages and update the redirects for the HTML accept MIME types.

### Selective properties (from the past call) /David/

Selective properties are not limited to the OSLC Query.
