# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Jun 04, 2020)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, Axel Reichwein.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2020/2020-04-09.md

## Minutes

### OSLCfest

- [ ] cut up the videos
- [ ] link to the OSLCfest
- [ ] presentation upload
- [ ] post everywhere, get a channel

### Jim's PR

- Andrew fixed the build
- We should enable SC on the AM spec too
- Andrew shall review it before we can push
- This opens up the path to PS01

### QM

- Andrew shall report if PS01 is possible
- SC config to be added too

### OMG

- JSON-LD support added to the refimpl

### OSLC Core

- Whether to publish LD vocabs or not with the spec
    - Andrew argues in favour, it's a key element of an LD spec
    - Others are not so sure
    - Jim suggests to have a vote on all of these issues.
- Andrew is convinced that RDF has precedence over HTML/English, supported by the statement in https://docs.oasis-open-projects.org/oslc-op/core/v3.0/psd04/oslc-core.html#versionCompatibility
    - The rest of the committee disagree
    - Andrew argues that for a Linked Data spec, Linked Data shall be normative.
    - Many users of OSLC specs keep a copy, and mistakes were found in vocabs. If we treat those vocabs with more care, our users will notice.
    - re: having the .ttl files be normative implies: 1) they have to be published by OASIS, 2) the need to be added as additional content in the spec and vocab documented, and noted as normative (Jim) also 3) we have to copy the .ttl files twice, to OASIS and to open-services.net unless OASIS supports content negotiation (which I don't think they do).
- The discussion around the [conneg](https://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Conneg) is split
    - Andrew says that making the vocab resources dereferenceable is core principle of Linked Data
    - Jim suggests it's merely a convenience
- Jim proposes to only publish Turtle and to avoid extra work
    - Andrew says that extra work is needed anyway and converting RDF takes a few minutes on the command line. We spent more time discussing that it would take me to do the conversion.
    - Few suggestions come that would create problems in tools like Jena, just like the problems were are battling ourselves!
- Andrew has updated the vocab to add `dcterms:modified` and `dcterms:publisher`
    - To also clearly showcase the version, `dcterms:hasVersion` was added.
    - Jim considers those properties superfluous, shall remove.
    - Andrew argues that URIs shall be opaque and encoding information into them is counter to the LD principles. This means we need those predicates to express information with some level of semantics.
    - Andrew also argues that we messed up the versioning before, labelling drafts of specs to have the finalised spec version. This caused OASIS to refuse linking to one of such drafts as a previous version.
- Andrew also updated the `dcterms:source` to point to Github.
    - Jim and David argue that this has to be the EXACT source, while DCTerms spec merely says it has to be a "related resource from which the described resource is derived".
