# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Feb 16, 2023)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 

- [x] Jim Amsden (KTH)
- [x] Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- [ ] Gray Bachelor (IBM)
- [x] David Honey (IBM)
- [x] Eran Gray (IBM)
- [ ] Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies)
- [ ] Partrick Ollerton (PTC)
- [x] Michael Rowe (IBM)
- [x] Ed Gentry (MID)
- [ ] Tanu (PTC)
- [x] Frej (SodiusWillert)
- [ ] Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)
- [ ] Ralph Schoon (IBM)
- [ ] Axel Reichwein (Koneksys)
- [ ] Unai Esandi
- [x] Martin Ulrich (Bosch)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2023-02-09.md

## Agenda
- [x] Linking Profiles specification editing progress
- [x] Request SMV to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS
- [x] Configuration Management Topics - establishing the scope for config 1.1?
    - [x] Change Set Delivery
    - [x] History
    - [x] PLM versioning alignment
- [x] Link Discovery Management

## Minutes

### Linking Profile

Eran has made some updates, and Martin has provided some review in the pull request. Jim will address the merge conflicts and merge the pull request next week after Eran has responded to Martin's feedback.

Ed will proceed with his sections and may have to cover some of the root services section since Jim has limited time to contribute.


### Configuration Management

We briefly discussed the missing configuration management capabilities listed above. This is something that could be addressed by experts in the area. Perhaps we can see if Geoff Clemm would be intersted in contributing.

But otherwise this was a secondary priority for the current OSLC-OP participants.


### Link Discovery Management

There is general concensus that some kind of Link Discovery Service should be the next priority. 

Jim will look into what's available from open-services.net for a link index document and see what IBM can share regarding the private API used in ELM LDX. We can see if that's something that could be harvested as a starting point. 

Link Discovery should focus first on requests to provide incoming links to one or more target resources. TRS could be assumed as the means for providing these links to a Link Discovery Management (LDM) server. LDM will need some discovery capability to advertise what links it can provide, establishing the scope of known relations.

There is a question as to whether a server or client could use congributions from multiple GCM servers. The same considerations might apply to LDM servers. There could be overlapping and potentially inconsistent contributions (due to timing issues). And there could be gaps where relations between resources across the LDM servers are not possible.

Eran will develop a proposed charter for the LDM specification that will cover the chanllenges addressed, the proposed solution and what the value would be for integration.



## Action items

- [ ] Jim to research missing CM to QM backlinks with David Honey to determine if these properties are mssing in CM.
- [ ] Raise a CM issue 
- [ ] Jad/Jim to reinitiate the PGB meetings - convert current series
- [ ] Eran to reach out the Linking Profile assignees to ensure some progress occurs.

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)

