# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Jan 12, 2023)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 

- Jim Amsden (KTH)
- Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- Frej (SodiusWillert)
- Martin Ulrich (Bosch)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2023-01-05.md

## Agenda

- [ ] Linking Profiles specification editing progress 
- [ ] Request SMV to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS
- [ ] OSLC Automation spec

## Minutes

### TRS 3.0 PS02

Ready to publish. Followup with SMV vote for COS.

### Configuration Management

Still looking for 3rd SoU.

Considerations for Configuration Management 1.1:
* Change set delivery
* Stream history
* Variability management 
* Normalization with PLM versioning
* Stable URLs

### Martin Ulrich Joined the OSLC-OP

PLM architect at Bosch. Uses all of the current PLM products. Can provide a comprehensive point of view from the user's perspective.

Configuration management most important OSLC spec, but also the most complicated and least understood. 

There may be some missing content in the Configuration Management Primer. 

Working on developing a cross-domain configuration management solution to address extensibility and scalability requirements as well as all domains including systems engineering, electronics, etc.



## Action items

- [ ] Jad to ensure he is a member of the PGB
- [ ] Jad to invite new members to the PGB
- [ ] Ed to provide Configuration Management Statement of Use from MID

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)

