# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (May 4, 2023)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 

- [x] Jim Amsden (IBM)
- [ ] Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- [ ] Gray Bachelor (IBM)
- [x] David Honey (IBM)
- [x] Eran Gray (IBM)
- [ ] Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies)
- [ ] Partrick Ollerton (PTC)
- [ ] Michael Rowe (IBM)
- [ ] Ed Gentry (MID)
- [ ] Tanu (PTC)
- [x] Frej (SodiusWillert)
- [ ] Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)
- [ ] Ralph Schoon (IBM)
- [ ] Axel Reichwein (Koneksys)
- [x] Martin Ulrich (Bosch)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2023-04-20.md

## Agenda
- [ ] Publish Change Management errata
- [ ] TRS SoUs
- [ ] Linking Profiles specification editing progress
- [ ] Link Discovery Management Topics
- [ ] Configuration Management Topics - establishing the scope for config 1.1?
    - [ ] Change Set Delivery
    - [ ] History
    - [ ] PLM versioning alignment



## Minutes

### Link Discovery Managment Discussion

Eran and Martin had a number of questions.

How are predicates represented?

Predicates are just URIs, and should used typicaly URI syntax, e.g., `<https://open-services.net/ns/cm#implementsRequirement>` or oslc_cm:implementsRequirement

LDM servers could manage links between versioned and/or unversioned resources.

What happens when a Configuration-Context is not specified?

If either the target resource for which the client is requesting incoming links, or the potential source resources of those incoming links are versioned resources, then a Configuration-Context must be specified. An error would need to be raised in an oslc:Error response.


## Action items

- [ ] David will send out a link to a document describing how IBM handles links to non-versioned resources such as change requests.

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.





