# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Mar 30, 2023)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 

- [x] Jim Amsden (IBM)
- [x] Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- [ ] Gray Bachelor (IBM)
- [ ] David Honey (IBM)
- [x] Eran Gray (IBM)
- [ ] Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies)
- [ ] Partrick Ollerton (PTC)
- [ ] Michael Rowe (IBM)
- [ ] Ed Gentry (MID)
- [ ] Tanu (PTC)
- [ ] Frej (SodiusWillert)
- [ ] Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)
- [x] Ralph Schoon (IBM)
- [ ] Axel Reichwein (Koneksys)
- [ ] Martin Ulrich (Bosch)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2023-03-23.md

## Agenda
- [ ] Publish Change Management errata
- [ ] GET vs POST for managing sensitive information
- [ ] TRS SoUs
- [ ] Linking Profiles specification editing progress
- [ ] Link Discovery Management Topics
- [ ] Configuration Management Topics - establishing the scope for config 1.1?
    - [ ] Change Set Delivery
    - [ ] History
    - [ ] PLM versioning alignment

## Minutes

### CM Errata

Zip file sent to OASIS, no feedback yet. Jim to ping Paul to make sure he has everything he needs.

### TRS SoUs

IBM has submitted. KTH and Sodius-Willert are listed as potential submitters, but haven't yet (at least I couldn't find the SoUs in the oslc-op mailing archive).

### GET vs POST

OSLC makes much us of GET with query parameters in some cases, that could expose information that has security implications. The POST entity request bodies could be encrypted to avoid exposing query strings in the URI. See [CWE-598: Use of GET Request Method With Sensitive Query Strings](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/598.html).

This is a broader HTTP issue that could be resolved by using TLS. But there may be cases where certain URLs have to be sent unencrpted to get through various proxies, etc. Or decrypted GET URLs could be stored in a user's browser where they could be exposed to hackers. TLS only addresses secure transition of HTTP requests, it does not address security of the content of those resources once they are consummed by a client or server. 

We could do an inventory of all OSLC GETs, see which ones use query parameters, and which of these parameters might expose security issues and would therefore require updating the specs to support POST.

OSLC Query already supports GET and POST for query strings. The only other GET in OSLC that might expose information is GET with selective properties. This would only expose property names, not values. CWE-598 explicity uses an example of exposing database column names which would be similar to exposing RDF resource property URLs. 

Jim will create an issue against OSLC core to support GET or POST with selective properties.


## Action items

- [ ] Jim will create an issue against OSLC core to support GET or POST with selective properties.
- [ ] Jim to ping Chet and Paul about CM errata and Config Management FMV for COS.


- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [x] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [x] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info) - no longer needed, but welcome.



