# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Feb 02, 2023)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 

- [x] Jim Amsden (KTH)
- [ ] Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- [ ] Gray Bachelor (IBM)
- [ ] David Honey (IBM)
- [x] Eran Gray (IBM)
- [ ] Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies)
- [ ] Partrick Ollerton (PTC)
- [ ] Michael Rowe (IBM)
- [ ] Ed Gentry (MID)
- [ ] Tanu (PTC)
- [x] Frej (SodiusWillert)
- [ ] Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)
- [ ] Ralph Schoon (IBM)
- [ ] Axel Reichwein (Koneksys)
- [ ] Unai Esandi
- [x] Martin Ulrich (Bosch)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2023-01-26.md

## Agenda
- [ ] Linking Profiles specification editing progress
- [ ] Request SMV to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS
- [ ] Configuration Management Topics - establishing the scope for config 1.1?
    - [ ] Change Set Delivery
    - [ ] History
    - [ ] PLM versioning alignment

## Minutes

### Linking Profile

Linking profile has to address where links are stored, since there is no central storage. We have agreement that the active, outgoing, server owning the source resource would "own the link".

We will create a table of OSLC properties and specify which one is the forward property. 

CM does not define back/inverse links for QM links such as affectedByChangeRequest, blockedByChangeRequest, relatedChangeRequest, testsChangeRequests, etc. This is because link guidance was to not define redundant backlinks. 

We may wish to deprecate all such backlinks in all specs as a means of effecting link ownership.

But there is a specific issue with these missing backlinks. These backlinks are defined in IBM EWM, and since ChangeRequests are non-versioned, the CM server would alwasy own the links to potentially versioned test cases.

So these backlink properties may need to be added to CM.





## Action items

- [ ] Jim to research missing CM to QM backlinks with David Honey to determine if these properties are mssing in CM.
- [ ] Raise a CM issue 
- [ ] Jad/Jim to reinitiate the PGB meetings - convert current series
- [ ] Eran to reach out the Linking Profile assignees to ensure some progress occurs.

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)


