# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Mar 09, 2023)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 

- [x] Jim Amsden (KTH)
- [ ] Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- [x] Gray Bachelor (IBM)
- [ ] David Honey (IBM)
- [x] Eran Gray (IBM)
- [ ] Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies)
- [ ] Partrick Ollerton (PTC)
- [ ] Michael Rowe (IBM)
- [x] Ed Gentry (MID)
- [ ] Tanu (PTC)
- [ ] Frej (SodiusWillert)
- [ ] Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)
- [x] Ralph Schoon (IBM)
- [ ] Axel Reichwein (Koneksys)
- [ ] Martin Ulrich (Bosch)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2023-02-23.md

## Agenda
- [ ] Linking Profiles specification editing progress
- [ ] Link Discovery Management Topics
- [ ] Configuration Management Topics - establishing the scope for config 1.1?
    - [ ] Change Set Delivery
    - [ ] History
    - [ ] PLM versioning alignment
- [ ] Link Discovery Management

## Minutes

### Change Management

The missing properties will be added back to CM 3.0 using an errata. This will require a Full Majority Vote. Jim is working through the process with OASIS. 

### Linking Profiles

Ed will provide some content in the Authentication section. Many other sections are not complex, mostly requiring elaborating the table that outlines the profile conformance. Eran has some table formatting updating to do. 

### Link Discovery Management

Martin and Eran are working on this. An initial draft has been created and is in https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs.

Jim had to leave early.

## Action items

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Management 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)


