# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Oct 20, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden (KTH), Jad El-khoury (KTH), David Honey (IBM), Ean Gray (IBM), Jim (Raython Technologies), Frej (SodiusWillert), Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-10-13.md

## Agenda

- [x] Editing assignments for Linking Profiles specification
- [ ] Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS 
- [x] Discuss TRS issue: https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/578

## Minutes


### OSLC Actions and Automation Interest

There has been interest expressed on the OSLC Automation spec. See https://forum.open-services.net/t/steps-to-contribute-to-the-automation-domain/669/3. Additional notes on OSLC Actions and Automation are available at https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/oslc-domains/201809/msg00003.html

Frej thinks we should think about how to make it easier to discover domains and their vocabularies, constraints, etc. so they can be more easily created.

Other organizations could create and publish their own OSLC vocabularies, but these need not be governed by OSLC-OP. We have an interest in promoting integration and broadening the participating domains. So we may need to think about how we can facilitate new domain creation and integration.

Minimally OSLC-OP members should participate in reviews of these domain specifications and promote the work on open-services.net.

### TRS [issue 578](https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/578)

We agreed to the following changes in the TRS 3.0 specification, and do do a revision of the project specification PS02.

Remove the following:

Base segmentation MUST be accomplished using the mechanisms described in the "Resource Paging" section of [OSLCCore3]. [TRS-28]
In its place add the following with appropriate conformance clause identifiers TBD:

If base paging is implemented, the server MAY respond with a 30x redirect message, directing the Client to the first “single-page resource”, or alternatively it MAY respond with the first "single-page resource" [TRSxxx].

The representation of a single-page resource MAY contain a subset of the Base’s membership triples [TRSxxx+1].

The response for a single-page resource SHOULD contain a Link: <http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#Page>; rel="type" header [TRSxxx+2]. If there are further pages of base page members for the single-page response, the response MUST include a Link: <uriOfNextPage>; rel="next" header, where uriOfNextPage is the URI of the next page.[TRSxxxx+3].

The first single-page resource of a Base MUST include a trs:cutoffEvent property [TRSxxx+4].

### Linking Profile

Summarized authentication/authorization section: OIDC can be used if all integrated applications can use the same OP, otherwise OAuth1.0a can be used.

There are no blocking issues for contribuing to the profile sections. Eran has requested changes on the link ownership section, to verify specific link ownership with the jazz.net applications.



## Action items

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)
