# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (June 16, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, David Honey, Frej, Jim Gammon.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-06-09.md 

## Agenda

- [ ] Publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone.
- [ ] Ed to briefly describe the directionality of links
- [ ] Use cases ("opted-in" and "opted-out") for the linking profile (Eran). 

## Minutes

We reviewed yesterday's monthy OSLC impact strategy meeting focused on profiles. We are exploring commonality/variability around a specific linking use case to determine opportunities for standardization to facilitate practical integrations. We may do this informally first to see that the commonality/variability is, the implications for potential standardication, and the appetite for making required changes. We will then see whether a specific profile is practical to take forward.

Regarding directionality of links: OSLC links (i.e., RDF properties/predicates) are always directional. And it may be feasible in a profile to adopt the convention that a link (a subject, predict object, object triple) would be stored on the server that stores the subject. 

But that doesn't resolve the link ownership problem. We discussed a specific example: Requirement validatedBy Test Case vs. Test Case validates Requirement. The validatedBy and validates properties are both defined and are independent. An RM tool could decide it uses validatedBy as the 'primary' link and stores the (requirement, validatedBy, testCase) triples. A QM tool could mak a similar decision that validates is its primary property and choose to store (testcase, validates, requirement) triples, each wanting to access its incoming links. 

Now whether this is redundant information or not depends on the meaning of validatedBy and validates. If one is a property and the other is an inverse property, then we know which end should own the link triple and which ends queries for incoming links. If not, then storage and query would be undefined and might be different in different implementations. 

This may need to be resolved with additonal constraints to define properties and inverse properties in the profiles to establish deterministic or discoverable link ownership.

A related issue occurs in configuration management. Say your using an RM tool and you create a validatedBy link to a test case, but the link is owned by the QM tool, so the (testcase, validates, requirement) triple is actually  stored in the QM tool, 'modifying' the test case, not the requirement. If the user in the RM tool add that link in the context of a change set, then they might expect to have to deliver that change set. But the chance set would not have that change because the requirement didn't actually change, it only appeared to change. Suspending or discarding the RM change set wouldn't actually remove the link! And there are no global change sets that would address related changes across linked tools. Users should not need to know how the tools are implemented to create, navigate, discard or deliver links.

Config Management spec status:

PS01 has been published. Now we need to decide if we want to promote to candidate OASIS standard. 

Change sets were introduced to cover the case of overriding a a stream with current work. Our question is whether its ok to standardize config management without addressing change set delivery and stream history. Do those operations need to be standardized in order to achive the config management value proposition? 


### Progress

- AM review till the end of June
- Config PS published, OASIS Admin did the needed changes by hand, Jim replicated changes on the `master` branch and tag.


### Profiles

- Draft is in https://hackmd.io/ChxK5egSQPWJFxqMiT2Lxg

Eran's link storage matrix:

- Symmetric
    - EWM *Work Item implements Requirement*. Not symmetric.
- For example, RM to RM:
    - RM stores the outgoing link.
    - Linked side discovers the incoming link by LDX.

## Action items

- [ ] Andrew to publish NS files.
- [ ] Andrew will check the tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [x] Jim will push a mirror change to CM on master. Changes: date and ReSpec version.
- [ ] Jim will explore the [config management motivation](https://docs.oasis-open-projects.org/oslc-op/config-primer/v1.0/pn01/config-primer.html) to see if the intended value can be achieved without standardizing change set delivery or stream history
- [ ] David will connect with Nick to see if he would give his opinion on the need to standardize change set delivery and


