# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (June 30, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury, David Honey 

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-06-16.md 

## Agenda

- [x] Discuss new co-chair election
- [x] Consider submitting Config Management 1.0 for OS in its current state
- [ ] Publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone.
- [ ] Ed to briefly describe the directionality of links
- [ ] Use cases ("opted-in" and "opted-out") for the linking profile (Eran). 

## Minutes

AM specification OS call for consent posted.

### Discussion on Configuration Management 
Comments from Nick 20 June 2022:

>Change set delivery was discussed back in 2017. See [Need to distinguish in-progress change set from delivered/committed one](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__issues.oasis-2Dopen.org_browse_OSLCCCM-2D36&d=DwIFaQ&c=jf_iaSHvJObTbx-siA1ZOg&r=JiMXxpDwgq75ZobAwQMFUzf8bODpyNn0SXiQdih1Bas&m=PBY729u07SOaQiX5ya24iRwN_UL7Dkq2_MMpoLJf1jy611FJLZBIdh2Vv6IzSwDL&s=gNOEXSU8Y_njDwTTmReQTD-DewivvlTIqv9Gool5Kt4&e=)  and its successor [Need to distinguish in-progress change set from delivered/committed one](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__issues.oasis-2Dopen.org_browse_OSLCCORE-2D99&d=DwIFaQ&c=jf_iaSHvJObTbx-siA1ZOg&r=JiMXxpDwgq75ZobAwQMFUzf8bODpyNn0SXiQdih1Bas&m=PBY729u07SOaQiX5ya24iRwN_UL7Dkq2_MMpoLJf1jy611FJLZBIdh2Vv6IzSwDL&s=sZceeun-AEiPdsEZtUNfx-PjOA38AjUvSMsTxshtuT8&e=) .
 
>With the proposals in that issue, you could find the change sets delivered to a stream (or that were delivered to a stream at the time a baseline is captured). With current implementations, you might be able to query for the configurations with an oslc_config:overrides predicate whose value is the stream or baseline in question. At one point, if not still, DOORS NG provided an rm_config:changesets property on a config, listing the csets delivered to that stream.
 
>The proposals in issues 36/99 never made firm progress as there seemed to be not enough interest to resolve them for the first edition of the spec.
 
>I think it is a topic that would be valuable to address for a future rev of the spec - personally I wouldn't hold up a 1.0 spec for it.

>It is possible to add content to a config contribution with simple POST and PUT to create new resources or update existing resources. It is not necessary to make those changes through change sets.

Meeting attendees agreed that we should proceed with submitting Config Management 1.0 as COS. 

Regarding establishing links using delegated dialogs in a configuration context, server implementations may indicate on the selection dialog that the storage of the link might not be on the server that requested the creation of the link.

### Handover from Andrew
The following items may requrie some handover from Andrew:

1. Config 1.0 COS 
2. Eventually TRS COS
3. Getting all the namespaces published
4. Making sure all the spec links are properly updated



### Progress




### Profiles

- Draft is in https://hackmd.io/ChxK5egSQPWJFxqMiT2Lxg

Eran's link storage matrix:

- Symmetric
    - EWM *Work Item implements Requirement*. Not symmetric.
- For example, RM to RM:
    - RM stores the outgoing link.
    - Linked side discovers the incoming link by LDX.

## Action items

- [ ] Andrew to publish NS files. Config Management appears to be published, but not TRS
- [ ] Andrew will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [x] Jim will push a mirror change to CM on master. Changes: date and ReSpec version.
- [x] Jim will explore the [config management motivation](https://docs.oasis-open-projects.org/oslc-op/config-primer/v1.0/pn01/config-primer.html) to see if the intended value can be achieved without standardizing change set delivery or stream history
- [x] David will connect with Nick to see if he would give his opinion on the need to standardize change set delivery and
- [ ] Jim will start the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS.
- [ ] Jad to join PGB
- [ ] OSLC OP to elect new co-chair
