# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Nov 10, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 
- [x] Jim Amsden (KTH)
- [x] Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- [x] Gray Bachelor (IBM)
- [x] David Honey (IBM)
- [x] Ean Gray (IBM)
- [x] Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies)
- [ ] Partrick Ollerton (PTC)
- [x] Michael Rowe (IBM)
- [x] Ed Gentry (MID)
- [ ] Tanu (PTC)
- [x] Frej (SodiusWillert)
- [ ] Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)
- [ ] Ralph Schoon (IBM)
- [ ] Axel Reichwein
- [x] Unai Esandi

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/20221103.md

## Agenda

- [x] OSLCFest planning
- [x] Linking Profiles specification editing progress 
- [ ] Request SMV to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS
- [ ] Request SMV to submit TRS 3.0 PS02 for COS
- [x] OSLC Automation spec

## Minutes

### OSLC Automation

Unai is working with ULMA Embedded Solutions, trying to integrate projects using OSLC. He has identified some suggestions for improvements in OSLC Automation. He's looking for an approach to taking these forward in order to facility integrations with tools that require automation.

Suggest Unai sketch some use cases and show how they are not met with the current Automation specs. Then we can work together to see what changes could be taken forward and how.

Automation plan should have a means of grouping automation plans into a hierarchy, similar to service providers. 

### Linking Profiles

Eran working responding to pull request changes. He was not able to find the links Jim sent. Jim will send them again. Eran will create a Linking Profile wiki page to manage section assignments.

### OSLCFest Planning


### Configuration Management

OSLC Configuration Management does not cover history or delivery of change sets. Therefore there are gaps in the SysML v2 services model PIM to PSM mapping for OSLC. The OSLC-OP agreed to defer these fundamental features in order to accelerate delivery of Configuration Management 1.0, and establish fundamental configuration context concepts.

These gaps will have to be addressed in updates to OSLC Configuration Management revisions, and participation in the OMG SysML v2 RTF.





## Action items


- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS - in progress
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone - in progress

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)


