# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Aug 18, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH), Jad El-khoury (KTH), Frej (SodiusWillert), Patrick Ollerton (PTC), Ralph Schoon (IBM), Tanupreet Jolly (PTC), Gray Bachelor (IBM)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-08-11.md 

## Agenda

- [ ] review of Initial draft of the Linking profiles supplement (shared by Eran via email)
- [ ] Gray presents summary of prior work on product definition and ideas on future work (a couple of weeks from now)
- [ ] Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS 
- [ ] Determine if/when OSLC OP takes on OSLC profile work
- [x] Frej - Update on TRS implementations (September target)
- [x] OSLC Fest - dates and actions
- [ ] Discuss areas of interest for PTC

## Minutes

### Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS

We have 2 SoU, but are waiting for a third. Potentially, PTC can provide such a SoU.

### publish NS files for Config and TRS

Andrew says that Andrew and Jim agreed in an earlier call that we should lower the bar from OS to PS for the first-time spec publications that never attained the OS status. Just recording this for the minutes.

### OSLC Fest - dates and actions
Date Suggestion: Tues 8th Nov to Thurs 10th Nov. Same format as last year (2-3 hrs per day) 
* Tues 8th clashes with INCOSE Sweden.
* Fri 11th - clashes with holidays in France.
* New Suggestion: Tues 15th Nov to Thurs 17th Nov.

Format: is there space for longer presentations?

Probe people at the event of they are interested in specific workshops (for example, Lyo, PTC toolsuite, Sodius's OSLC-connect Foundation). We can then organize such events afterwards.

### Determine if/when OSLC OP takes on OSLC profile work

Postpone the discussion until Eran and Jim are on the call.

### TRS 3.0 compat

We agreed to carry over the LDP Paging requirements (via Link header only) over to TRS 3.0. See David's proposal in https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/578.


### Discuss areas of interest for PTC

Current PTC Implementations (August 2022):
- Windchill RV&S (OSLC 3.0, Requirements, Change domains)
- Windchill Modeler (OSLC 2.0, Requirements, Architecture domains)
- Windchill PLM (OSLC 3.0, Configuration, Change domains)
- Windchill Asset Library (Asset Mgmt domain)

Future interest in:
- PLM Domain
- Configuration Mgmt (improvements)
- TRS
- Quality Mgmt 



## Action items

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management appears to be published, but not TRS
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jad to join PGB and be promoted as co-chair (do it properly)
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)

