# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Sep 22, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden (KTH), Jad El-khoury (KTH), David Honey (IBM), Ean Gray (IBM), Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies), Michael Rowe (IBM)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-09-08.md

## Agenda

- [ ] Editing assignments for Linking Profiles specification
- [ ] Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS 
- [ ] Frej - Update on TRS implementations (September target)

## Minutes

jazz.net server to server authentication involves establishing consumer/friend relationships. These can be referenced as examples, but not as normative approaches. 

Server to server authentication involves OAuth URLs that are provided in the rootservices resource. So authentication and rootservices sections are related.

The OSLC-OP GitHub repo, https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs, can be used directly to edit the markdown files. Edits should create a branch and the editor should create a pull request to submit the changes for review and merging.

The meeting focused on allocating the profiles sections.  Here are people that signed up for sections:
 
### Basic Topics

Root Services – Jim A

Authentication  - Ed Gentry

CSP for Friends – Frej  - We agreed that this section should be called enabling delegated UI

Selection dialogs – Tanu (PTC) – this is the provider side

CORS for Friends – Ed – this section should also be renamed not to rely on the Friend concept

Previews – Tanu (PTC). We also agreed that previews should change to a must for proper linking support.

### Bi-directional links topics

Link Ownership – Eran (with support from ED)

Put on resources -  TBD, No volunteers despite this should be fairly simple    -  Next week

OSLC Query for incoming links - TBD

There was quite a bit of discussion triggered by David warning that this is a big challenge. We need to find a practical way to sort this out.

PTC also implemented query for incoming links, need to see if we can get some interoperability here.

Requires discovering the queriy capabilities needed to query incoming links from potentially many providers. jazz.net apps use project area associations to establish the scope of incoming link queries. There is no standard means of constraining the scope a client might have for determining incoming links.

There are also challenges with querying multiple link types. This currently requires separate OSLC queries for each link type, and this will not scale.

Essentially OSLC query is currently the only standard means of accessing incoming links, but this is not scalable in practice. An Incoming Link Discovery Serice is required to do this in a scalable way, and is also required for the Config Management provile.

No volunteer to write this section yet.



### Config aware topics

Linking with config management providers – David Honey

TRS provisioning for Link index providers – TBD


## Action items

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management appears to be published, but not TRS
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jad to join PGB and be promoted as co-chair (do it properly)
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)

