# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Feb 03, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, David Honey, François-Régis Jaunatre (aka Frej), Jad El-khoury, Stefan Oblinger.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-01-27.md

## Agenda

- Last meeting Action Points.
- Welcome Stefan Oblinger.
- 2022 outlook.

## Minutes

- Jim has opened the TRS PS vote.
- David still short on time to look into 3 issues on Config.
- Jim is seeking consensus on AM OS:
    - AM spec is central to system eng lifecycle management.
    - Other specs are also not very deep specifically for vendor flexibility.
    - New links are valuable. Stefan agrees that more specific links are needed.
    - Jazz support for links AM is a hardcoded set (in the Jazz namespace). Bad link names are caused by backwards-compatible considerations. The suggested workaround is to create subproperties of the supported properties. 
- Future work
    - TRS push over MQTT and/or Kafka.
        - KTH made [a prototype](https://github.com/EricssonResearch/scott-eu/tree/master/lyo-services/lib-common/src/main/kotlin/eu/scott/warehouse/lib) using MQTT. Results [published](https://scholar.google.se/citations?view_op=view_citation&hl=en&user=6kagbzkAAAAJ&citation_for_view=6kagbzkAAAAJ:UeHWp8X0CEIC) in an IEEE conference.
        - Stefan is interested.
        - Koneksys is interested in the Kafka spec.
        - Jim thinks we should minimize new spec document creation. We should try to put new content into the existing documents.
    - LDX spec. Discussin in a [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14onLYNVP2ZxJjUJPeMNRWLltuBfCqC9Wo51GbxKb0AU/edit).
    - Link Validity could be a valuable addition to the stakeholders' needs. The vocabulary is already public. Current implementation from Jazz supports a single validity profile, but the design allows for multiple link validity profiles.

## Action items

- [ ] Jim will send a call for AM SOUs required to initiate a vote for COS.
- [ ] Andrew still needs to produce the QM OS package for OASIS
- [ ] Link Guidance is ready for ZIP /Andrew/
- [ ] Andrew will check if the conneg update is deployed.
- [ ] Andrew will check the PROMCODE passes ShapeCheck.
