# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Aug 11, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, Eran Gery, Ed Gentry, Jim Gammon, Gray Bachelor, Ralph Schoon

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-07-21.md 

## Agenda

- [x] New co-chair election - deferred to future meeting when Jad is back - election approved
- [x] Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS in its current state - 3rd SoU in progress from MID - Ed will provide tomorrow
- [ ] Publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone - Andrew and Jim will meet separately to get this done and documented
- [ ] Determine if/when OSLC OP takes on OSLC profile work - Eran to develop outline of profile spec to be reviewed by PGB and then vote on adoption by OSLC-OP
- [ ] Update on TRS implementations (September target)


## Minutes

### TRS 3.0 spec paging issue

See: https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/578. TRS 2.0 discussed base page segmentation. This was based on LDP, and is what current ELM TRS providers and consumers implement. This got replaced in the TRS 3.0 spec by boiler plate text from OSLC Core 3.0 re: OSLC Paging is a SHOULD and servers MAY implement LDP. This is breaking for TRS 2.0 implementations that require LDP paging. Recommend TRS 3.0 require LDP paging to be compatible with existing TRS implementations. 

Base segmentation MUST be accomplished using the mechanisms described in the "Resource Paging" section of [OSLCCore3]. [TRS-28] 

Proposal for TRS 3.0:

Change this existing text:
Base segmentation MUST be accomplished using the mechanisms described in the "Resource Paging" section of [OSLCCore3]. [TRS-28]

To:
Base segmentation MUST be accomplished using LDP paging as described in 
https://www.w3.org/TR/ldp-paging/
[TRS-28] 
An alternative is to replace the text of the whole section with the contents of the TR 2.0 specification at 
https://archive.open-services.net/wiki/core/TrackedResourceSet-2.0/#Paged-Base
 
Andrew: does ELM support all LDP paging options? Should the TRS spec be more specific about what features MUST be implemented. 

Conclusion: David will update issue 578 with a specific proposal that provides the minimum required details of LDP paging that is required to resolve the compatibility with TRS 2.0. 

### Co-chair Election

Jad was unamously elected as co-chair, and will replace Andrew on the PGB representing KTH. Welcome Jad, and thanks for you continued contribution!

Call for participation in OSLC-OP PGB: See
https://www.oasis-open.org/join-2/#membership-dues-op provides details if your company is not an OASIS member yet, OASIS may give you a PGB seat without paying the full price. 

### OSLC Profile Specification

Eran will provide a proposed title, abstract, introduction and motivation draft for the PGB to review in order to establish a vote to adopt this work into OSLC-OP.

- Draft is in https://hackmd.io/ChxK5egSQPWJFxqMiT2Lxg

Eran's link storage matrix:

- Symmetric
    - EWM *Work Item implements Requirement*. Not symmetric.
- For example, RM to RM:
    - RM stores the outgoing link.
    - Linked side discovers the incoming link by LDX.

## Action items

- [ ] Andrew and Jim to publish NS files. Config Management appears to be published, but not TRS
- [ ] Andrew and Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Jad to join PGB

