# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Dec 15, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** 
- [ ] Jim Amsden (KTH)
- [x] Jad El-khoury (KTH)
- [x] Gray Bachelor (IBM)
- [x] David Honey (IBM)
- [x] Ean Gray (IBM)
- [ ] Jim Gammon (Raython Technologies)
- [ ] Partrick Ollerton (PTC)
- [ ] Michael Rowe (IBM)
- [ ] Ed Gentry (MID)
- [ ] Tanu (PTC)
- [x] Frej (SodiusWillert)
- [ ] Andrew Berezovskyi (KTH)
- [ ] Ralph Schoon (IBM)
- [ ] Axel Reichwein
- [ ] Unai Esandi

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oasis-open-project/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-12-01.md

## Agenda

- [x] Drag-Drop delegated UI

## Minutes

### Drag-Drop delegated UI

Eran - is it useful?
SodiusWillert has such a current implementation. The challenge is that one is not always drag/dropping an OSLC URL but a web-URL (the "normal" url the end-user uses to refer to a artefact) of that resource. How can one get the OSLC Url from the web-url? alternatives:
* It would be interesting for the web-URL to be able to handle a specific oslc-header that returns the OSLC URL (or compact-informaton about the OSLC URL).
* A discovery URL that returns the OSLC URL for a Web-URL

David: Avoids Service discovery. Go for simpler approach. For example, for the Ui Preview, we ask the OSLC URL for its UI Preview through a special header.

The logic on how to deal with implementing drag/drop (or copy/paste a URL) needs not be standardised.

A discussion is also raised about whether it is in the linking profile, or Core.

The way forward: Raise an github issue to deal with it in comming meetings. Eran will raise such an issue


