# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (May 26, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, Michael Rowe.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-05-19.md 

## Agenda

- [ ] Publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone.
- [ ] Ed to briefly describe the directionality of links
- [ ] Use cases ("opted-in" and "opted-out") for the linking profile (Eran). 

## Minutes

- Welcome Michael from the ELM team.
- Present the new work track for the OSLC Profiles. Michael is interested in this track.
    - Link type support should be discussed.
    - Domain-specific profile considerations may also be required.
    - Idea for the link profiles
        - Three *Core profiles*
            - *Basic Linking profile* - only OSLC UI Dialogs required.
            - *Bidirectional Linking profile* - Basic + REST (PUT) capabilities.
            - *Config (Full) Linking profile*? - Bidirectional + Config M + TRS (link index is only built for a config-enabled project).
                - OSLC Query may be even required in some cases, e.g. RM(DNG)<>AM. We might call it a *Full Legacy Linking profile.* Then DNG would mark it that it requires AM servers to support it for full interop.
                - Backlinks were used before Link Index was introduced. Backlinks are really problematic under the Config.
        - Domain profiles. Just Basic or Full may not be enough, need to prescribe where to store particular links, even if both servers support Full Profile.
            - David suggests a single domain profile "Canonical Link Storage profile" instead, due to the fact that requirements on storage will be posed in a cross-domain fashion.
- Discuss the OSLC Link Discovery (aka Link Index).
- Jim mentions CfgM, to focus on getting it done.
    - Ian may need some time before he can answer if he can contribute.
    - Geoff has no free capacity.
    - Jim and Andrew may need to step up to get the spec finalized.
    - The definition of done could be to define a mapping for a Configuration and participate in Global CM. Need to investigate further if the changeset delivery must be defined.

## Action items

NA
