# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (May 19, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, François-Régis Jaunatre (aka Frej), Ed Gentry.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-05-12.md 

## Agenda

- [x] PN updates (Andrew + Jim)
- [x] Profiles draft (Andrew)
- [ ] Publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone.

## Minutes

### General discussion

* Change set delivery is not a key issue from a GC integration context.
* ETM doesn't support change sets.
* Jazz SCM isn't even standardized. 
* If only working with GCs to establish a context for resolving context URIs to versions, then how change sets are delivered isn't relevant. 
* In terms of a configuration backbone, change set delivery may not be needed. 
* Does the Config primer provide enough of the integration use cases to have the current PS be a candidate OASIS standard?

### Progress updates

- Andrew updated Core, TRS Primer, and TRS Guidance PNs.
- Jim updated Config Primer and Link Guidance PNs.
- AM waiting for the 60-review to finish end of June.
- Other things depend on David's availability.
- Jad and Erik are tied in the INCOSE presentation of OSLC.

### OSLC Basic Linking Profile

[Draft link](https://hackmd.io/ChxK5egSQPWJFxqMiT2Lxg).

- Basic use-case
    - Connect two OSLC-conformant tools to each other.
    - Create links from one OSLC Server to another.
- Wish to have
    - Discovery via Link Index
- Non-goals
    - Config
- Ways to establish links
    - Two ways to link, either just on the consumer side after the Selection Dialog.
    - Or on the Consumer side via further OSLC PUT requests.
        - Andrew says [many tools lack this support](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1reWx2nIWGapBIZBjY1mBcXyRwLrkz3U68rYDc_jpD8M/edit#gid=1146907510) according to Jad's survey of OSLC. Maybe create two profiles, one basic profile ("only creating links that one owns") and another REST API (or reverse linking) profile.
        - There is a [Jazz Wiki](https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Main/CALM2010LinkTypes) page that prescribes the location of link storage. 
    - Bidirectionally (raised by Frej).
        - All sorts of issues when under configuration.
        - Jazz has a concept of inverse *labels*.
        - Consistency hard to ensure due to the lack of distributed transactions.
        - Example: `validates` and `validatedBy`. If a Test Case tool wants, it can store `validates` links. Implementers get to choose who stores each link.
