# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Oct 6, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden (KTH), Gray Bachelor (IBM), Ean Gray (IBM), Michael Rowe (IBM), Ed Gentry (MID), Tanu (PTC), Frej (SodiusWillert)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-09-29.md

## Agenda

- [ ] Editing assignments for Linking Profiles specification
- [ ] Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS - Ed and Tanu will submit their SoUs
- [x] Frej - Update on TRS implementations (September target) - Deferred

## Minutes

### TRS
There may be an inconsistency between TRS 2 and 3 that needs to be discussed with David. Frej will see if there's an open issue we need to discuss. 

Then we'll consider submitting TRS for COS without additional analysis form Frej. 

### Profiles

#### Authentication

Ed had discussions with IBM, John Vasta, that jazz apps could include auth token from OIDC provider. If true, then can write profile to have OAuth1.0a as optional. 

jazz apps that use Jazz Authentication Server (JAS) supports OIDC. But it defaults to OAuth1.0a if servers are using different JAS domains. Michael will determine of jazz apps on JAS do not require OAuth1.0a. 

The profile could specify OIDC and have a recommended approach for OSLC 2.0 compatability using OAuth1.0a. But this would introduce the very integration challenges the profile is intended to avoid. 

eclipse/Lyo supports OAuth1.0a but using old unsupported libraries and wouldn't be recommended for production use. Lyo does not support authentication through an external provider.

Additional information:

https://github.com/oslc-op/website-content-negotiation/blob/master/config/conneg.yml#L23
 
https://docs.oasis-open-projects.org/oslc-op/trs/v3.0/tracked-resource-set-vocab.html
 
https://www.keycloak.org/
 
https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/differences-between-oauth-1-2/
 
https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/JASandOIDCProvider
 
Starting version 7.0.2 you can configure Application Passwords for Non-Web Clients. The filters are different when JAS is configured with App passwords.

In 7.0.1 and below, The OIDC authentication flow works for Web Clients only. 

Strategy: 

Michael will see what jazz apps support for cross-domain OIDC token handling. If OIDC can handle all the scenarios needed by the profile then we will specify OIDC (OAuth2.0). Otherwise we will to pick OAuth1.0a as the least common authentication supported in all situations.

This will likely also require the profile to include the protocol jazz apps use to establish consumer/friend relationships using rootservices.

It is expected that a profile may need to support some variability in order to maximize interoperability of existing implementations. But this should be minimized. Too many profiles, or profiles with a lot of variance may be just like having no profiles.


## Action items

- [ ] Michael will determine of jazz apps on JAS do not require OAuth1.0a. 
- [x] Gray will schedule the followup product definition meeting.
- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [x] Jad to join PGB and be promoted as co-chair (do it properly)
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)

