# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Sep 29, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden (KTH), David Honey (IBM), Ean Gray (IBM), Tanu (PTC), Gray Bachelor (IBM)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-09-22.md

## Agenda

- [ ] Editing assignments for Linking Profiles specification
- [ ] Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS 
- [ ] Frej - Update on TRS implementations (September target)

## Minutes

### Link Ownership

For link storage, we need to start with a table of link type properties and what server/provider owns them. We can start with the opt-in rules in ELM.

Next we can see what other tools do, and determine where there are conflicts that need to be resolved.

Then we can use this to determin the best way to capture this information in the profile, possibly using an extension to ResourceShapes, or use of RDFS/Owl inverse property assertions in the vocabulary. The intent would be to provide a machine readable way of discovering this information that clients and servers could use.

The following links provide additional information:
* [CALM2010LinkTypes](https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/IntegratingWithConfigurationManagementEnabledCLMApplications)
* [Link Guidance](https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/IntegratingWithConfigurationManagementEnabledCLMApplications)
* [V2DuplicatePredicates](https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/IntegratingWithConfigurationManagementEnabledCLMApplications)
* [GCM integration](https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/IntegratingWithConfigurationManagementEnabledCLMApplications)

Opt-out may not be relevant to link ownership. The reason is that changing ELM from opt-out to opt-in doesn't change the link ownership, it just adds backlinks in some cases and relies on OSLC query for incoming links in some other cases.

PTC does not yest support configuration enable environments. There is no automated way to discover how links are stored. 

### Authentication

OSLC does not address client/server authentication, it assumes standard HTTP authentication challenge.

For server-to-server authentication, OAuth1.0a is always supported by ELM jazz apps, regardless of how the apps are configured, or whether they use Jazz Authentication Server (JAS) or not. OIDC can be used by jazz apps if they all use the same JAS. But if the servers are on different JAS domains, then OAuth1.0a is still used. 

So the profiles will need to specify OAuth1.0a at a minimum, and may offer OpenIDConnect as an option.

### Product Definition

Need to set a date for followup. Next step is to review PTC approach. 


## Action items

- [ ] Gray will schedule the followup product definition meeting.
- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management appears to be published, but not TRS
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jad to join PGB and be promoted as co-chair (do it properly)
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Managemnet 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)


