# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Jan 27, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, David Honey, François-Régis Jaunatre (aka Frej), Jad El-khoury.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-01-20.md

## Agenda

Before Jim joins:

- [x] submit QM OS package
- [x] continue discussions on open config issues
- [x] priorities and focus areas for 2022
- [x] SodiusWillert contribution to Lyo - remove Wink from json provider and allow Jena 2/3/4 swap.

With Jim:

- [x] finish up publishing the project notes
    - [x] identify which are ready to resubmit
- [x] PROMCODE NS updates review & merge
- [ ] decide what to do about AM COS
- [x] schedule PGB votes for Config PSD and TRS PS

## Minutes

### Agenda

Andrew will produce the QM OS package.

David did not have time to look into 3 issues on Config.

2022 focus:

- Finish Config and AM
- Publish TRS PS
- Publish first PSD for the Link Index spec
- Assist MITRE in two domain specs

Jim fixes the merge conflicts in Link Guidance, Andrew produces a ZIP with all the PNs for Paul.

Jim will seek consensus on AM OS publication with potential SOU providers. IOTP adaptor is an AM provider.

Jim will take a look at the PROMCODE and decide on the next actions. Andrew will check that the ShapeChecker passed.

Andrew will fix the PR for Core OS from Frej and publish.

SodiusWillert fork with the contribution is located under https://bitbucket.org/sodius/public.oslc.lyo/src/master/
