# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (June 9, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, Eran Gery, Ed Gentry, Frej, Jim Gammon.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-05-26.md 

## Agenda

- [ ] Publish NS files for Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone.
- [ ] Ed to briefly describe the directionality of links
- [ ] Use cases ("opted-in" and "opted-out") for the linking profile (Eran). 

## Minutes

### Progress

- AM review till the end of June
- Config PS published, OASIS Admin did the needed changes by hand, Jim shall replicate them on the `master` branch and tag.

### Misc

- David filed an issue to add a few predicates that were used by Jazz to the CM spec. This is because Jazz used `oslc_cm` namespace for those properties. We will hold off till the next round of CM updates.
- Eran raises an issue of links between CM and AM resources.

### Publish NS for Config and TRS

The suggestion is to publish those NS files not when they reach OS but PS. Tally:

- Andrew - yes
- David - yes
- Jim - yes
- Frej - yes

Andrew will do the update.


### Profiles

- Draft is in https://hackmd.io/ChxK5egSQPWJFxqMiT2Lxg

Eran's link storage matrix:

- Symmetric
    - EWM *Work Item implements Requirement*. Not symmetric.
- For example, RM to RM:
    - RM stores the outgoing link.
    - Linked side discovers the incoming link by LDX.

## Action items

- [ ] Andrew to publish NS files.
- [ ] Andrew will check the tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will push a mirror change to CM on master. Changes: date and ReSpec version.
