# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Oct 27, 2022)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Jad El-khoury

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden (KTH), Jad El-khoury (KTH), Ralph Schoon (IBM), Gray Bachelor (IBM), Ean Gray (IBM), Frej (SodiusWillert), David Honey (IBM)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2022/2022-10-20.md

## Agenda

- [ ] Editing assignments for Linking Profiles specification
- [ ] Submit Config Management 1.0 for OS 
- [ ] Schedule TRS 3.0 PS02 submission and vote by next week

## Minutes

### Config Management

Still looking for one more statement of use to submit OASIS COS.

### TRS

Andrew will review pull request from paging issue. SMV request should be requested by next meeting (at the end of the 14 day intent to publish notification period).

### Profile

No barriers or issues that need to be resolved for contribution. Contributors are encouraged to update their sections.

### Product Definition

Candidate meeting 9 Nov. Robert go give perspective from SodiusWillert, and product concepts in scenarios.

Good input from the last meeting from PTC covering OSLC usage in PTC product suite. Tanu provided demonstration. 

Next meeting will discuss scenarios that will motivate the next step for further work on a domain spec.

There are pros and cons of using Configuration Management as a product definition tool. What something is and how it varies over time and different contexts (versions & variants) are certainly related. PLM world typically addresses product and part revisions. How those revisions relate to other artifacts in the overall system lifecycle may be the scope for the new domain spec.

There are no link types that link lifecycle artifacts to global configurations. It's not clear what that would mean. A configuration is a collection of related versions of things. It should not be considered and artifact in its own right. We should not commingle the domain of configurations with what's in those configurations. That is, a configuration should not be considered a product or part. Rather it defines a related set of versions of products and parts.

A configuration should not be considered content in a configuration. Contributions are references to versions of content, they are not the actual content. 

### SysML v2

Jad and David are participating with OMG as they request.  An OSLC REST API for SysML v2 on top of the SysML REST API would require an adapter implementation. 



## Action items

- [ ] Jim (or Jad?) to publish NS files - with help of Andrew. Config Management PSD01 was published, but not TRS? Andrew says PSD01 files were published for TRS 
- [ ] Jim to publish NS files for PS01 Config and TRS, not wait until OS. COS is not really a published stage, just a milestone 

- [ ] Jim will check the release tags, at least the latest revision is tagged.
- [ ] Jim will continue the process to submit Config Management 1.0 for COS - pending 3rd SoU
- [ ] Patrick & Tanupreet to provide a SoU for Config Management 1.0 (They got an email from Andrew with info)

