# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Dec 12, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden,  David Honey, Gray Bachelor.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2019/2019-11-14.md


## Pending actions

- [ ] David: complete Query Spec updates
- [ ] Jim: Submit Core PSD04 to vote
- [ ] Andrew: QM PSD published
- [ ] Nick: NS URIs
- [ ] Nick: TRS committed WD

## Agenda

- OSLC Config-Management publication (Andrew)
- Realistic work allocation (Jim)
- OSLC QM Published
- Progress on Query updates
- Progress on Core for publish
- Progress on TRS WD
- Discussion on direction for AM 2.1 vs. 3.0 spec


## Minutes

David will likely not make any further progress on the Query spec untill next year.

Jim will send a set of AM questions to Raz to get input on what chanes we should consider for AM 2.x.

RDF media types. RDF/XML is the most commonly implemented. Turtle is less useful. 

Servers MUST provide at least one RDF serialization format. They SHOULD support RDF/XML if OSLC 2.0 compatibility is important to clients since it was a MUST. They SHOULD provide Turtle if LDP and OSLC 3.0 features are important. 

Not specifying a MUST for a specific RDF serialization format gives servers flexibility, but at the potential cost of incompatibilities. This is less of a problem then it might have been in the early days of RDF because most RDF APIs support most of the popular formats, and (fortunately) there aren't any new ones being developed. 

If a server gets an Accept header for some RDF serialization it doesn't support, it should return a serialization format that it does support, indicating that it is in the Content-Type. If the server gets an Accept header for some non-RDF content type, say ATOM, that it doesn't support, then it should return 406 Unacceptable. 

Should we provide this guidance in Core?

Jim doesn't think this is necessary as the risk of incompatibilities resulting from RDF serialization formats is relatively low. 

David has an action to propose any changes to the specification thinks may be necessary regarding guidance on resource serialization formats.

### TRS



### RM spec



### CfgM spec

- Andrew suggests to exchange meeting attendance for document editorship to have each active OP member push one PSD at a given time.
- Gray is interested in CfgM but has overwhelming committments till Jan'20.

## Next actions

- [ ] Jim: schedule Core PSD04 publish vote
- [ ] David: propose any changes to Core for RDF serialization format.



