# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Oct 31, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, Gray Bachelor, Nick Crossley.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2019/2019-10-24.md


## Pending actions

- [ ] Andrew: Get Paul to hold off publication
- [ ] Jad: update RM spec
- [ ] Andrew: QM PSD
- [ ] Nick: NS URIs
- [ ] Nick: TRS PSDs

## Agenda

- OSLC RM publication (Andrew)
- Realistic work allocation (Jim)
- OSLC QM PGB vote initiation


## Minutes

Nick working through vocabulary links.
Using CyberDuck
No progress yet on committing an updated TRS draft.

Andrew created draft pull request for publishing config management. 
Notified the PGB we're proposing to publish.
updated to recent ReSpec
has a list of actions - remove one section? re: client guidance. Doesn't exist yet - remove for now.
Doesn't yet have conformance clause markers Thats the biggest remaining work.

RM is published.
QM ballot is closed
QM sent to OASIS for publishing.

David hoping to start on Query this week.

Jim has resolutions for all the open core issues and will try to find time to get the documents in publish shape next week.

### TRS

- Jad is using TRS in his work.
- RELM is a view over LQE. LQE is a TRS consumer over multiple apps including Report Builder and provides a SPARQL endpoint.
- IBM is constrained by the consistency issues.
- KTH introduces a strongly sequential `trs:sequentialOrder` that gets ordered via a Redis atomic increment (up to 200k ops/s on commodity HW according to public benchmarks).
- Proposal to merge Creation and Modification events because some apps do not persist a log and as a result, multiple Creation events can be created.
- Uniquely ascending order is a good thing, but consumers shall be tolerant to the log snapshots "1,2,3,5" followed by "1,2,3,4,5".

### RM spec

- Paul gave us a diff, Andrew shares it with Jad and he applies it
- Andrew asks for a delay in publication, we will provide the right draft _again_.

### CfgM spec

- Andrew suggests to exchange meeting attendance for document editorship to have each active OP member push one PSD at a given time.
- Gray is interested in CfgM but has overwhelming committments till Jan'20.

## Next actions

- [ ]


