# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Aug 1, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Nick Crossley, David Honey, Gray Bachelor

**Scribe:** Jim (post meeting)

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2019/2019-07-18.md

## Minutes

- [ ] Address remaining issues prevent submission of OSLC specs as PSD revisions

There is a lot of specification editing and publishing work that needs to be done to get our current committee specifications republished as project specifications. The following issues are holding up this work. See Issue https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/issues/19.

√1. OP Project Specification format and OASIS boilerplate

We're still waiting on final review of the CM spec from Chet, and the OASIS Project Specification Template. The best approach is to do the best we can to produce the desired OASIS format, and then submit for PSD and get OASIS formal approval.

We agreed to focus on getting the CM 3.0 PSD submitted to OASIS as soon as possible, and use that to help finalize document format, styles, content, etc. as required by OASIS. Hopefully we are very close to something they will approve.

√2. Where OP specifications are published

This is up to OASIS. The current plan is to publish in a new OP document library: `docs.oasis-open-projects.org` using the following URL naming conventions:
```
https://docs.oasis-open-projects.org/[wgShortName]/[shortName]/v[oslcVersion]/[specStatus][revision]/[file-name].[ext]
```

OASIS will also manage a latest stage redirect to the latest published specification using the following URL naming convention:
```
https://docs.oasis-open.org/[wgShortName]/[shortName]/v[oslcVersion]/[file-name].[ext]
```

These are the URLs that should appear in the documents under This version and Latest version.

There are two problems with the OASIS Latest version URL. First, its not the latest version of a specification, its the latest revision of a version. Once a document becomes an OASIS standard, then it can no longer have revisions. Any changes have to be done in a new version. Since the OASIS Latest version URL contains the version identifier in the URL, it cannot link to the latest version, only the latest revision.

The second problem is that the docs.oasis-open.net host is changing to docs.oasis-open-project.net. We assume the reason for this is that OASIS doesn't want to have different naming conventions in the same document library, and they are not keen to change the naming conventions to address the issues we've raised over relative links and file names.

But as a result, the OASIS Latest version URI is not stable - as the OSLC specs move from a TC to an OP, the latest version URL changes. This raises the question of what the old TC latest version should point to. Or a qustion on the relationship between closed TC documents that have migrated to OP.


Our recommendation is to remove the version identifier from the latest version URL going forward, and manage the transition with redirects at docs.oasis-open.net. Alternatively we may introduce multiple latest version URLs, one managed by OASIS and another managed by the oslc-op using open-services.net to host the URL and manage the redirects.

We discused this with OASIS 01-July and OASIS agreed to modify the terminology for document refereces to refer to This, Previous and Latest statge (instead of version), and these refer to different revisions of documents in different lifecycle stages. We will also add a Latest version entry that uses open-services.net URLs to point to the actual latest version of the spec, regardless of its version, stage or revision.

See [Problems with OASIS Latest version URLs](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/oslc-op/topic/problems_with_oasis_latest/32599777?p=,,,20,0,0,0::recentpostdate%2Fsticky,,,20,2,0,32599777) for details.


√3. Format for published document URLs

The goal is to avoid breaking relative links between parts of a mult-part specification while following OASIS naming conventions to help identify specification PGB, identifier, version, status and revision directly in the URLs.

The proposal is to apply OASIS naming conventions to the path components, but not the file name as described above. Chet has agreed to this.


- [ ] We need to agree on the format of these URLs and how they will be generated

Version, status and revision are OASIS concepts used to identify specifications. PSD, PS, COS must have versions, and can all have revisions reflecting work by the PGB/TSC to address issues and/or feedback from reviews. An OS cannot have revisions, you have to create a new version to make any changes to an OASIS specification. These are all part of the title of the document, indicating to a reader the state of the specification and therefore how much they can rely on it.

ReSpec captures this information in the following respecConfig variables (using CM as an example):
~~~
shortName: "oslc-cm",
oslcVersion: "3.0",
specStatus: "PSD",
revision: "02",
publishDate: "2019-08-01", // The date the PGB vote to create the PSD closes
~~~
shortName, oslcVersion, specStatus and revision should be used to construct the document URLs published in the OASIS document library.

edDraftURI, thisVersion and latestVersion should be left blank in order for ReSpec to properly generate the document URLs.

- [ ] ReSpec is currently generating these URLs using open-services.net host instead of docs.oasis-open-project.net, and is using the label property instead of shortName, oslcVersion, specStatus and revision to construct URL path elements. We need to agree on and document what these URLs should be and what variables should be used to construct them.

ReSpec is currently using config.label to provide the document label and URI path entry as well as information in the document title. This requries information to be specified redundantly in the documents, and couples URL files names with document title content.

We agreed that ReSpec would only generate the This version URIs, and it would use the specification version, specStatus, and revision properties to do so according to the format described in issue #19.

Previous version and This version will be entered manually in the specifications. We may later generate the latest version URIs once we have clarity from OASIS on the issues raised above. But we don't need to solve this problem in ReSpec right now since the Latest version URIs generaly don't need to be calcualted, they're intented to be stable.

Regarding the specification of these version, status, revision and publish dates in the document: we all agree that once a document has been published and tagged, these properties in the document are essentially out of date - they are only accurate for the actual tagged version.

There are three ways to address this issue:
1. Don't worry about it, HEAD on master alwasy represents work in progress, only the tagged versions represent specific document states and revisions and are preserved by Git.
2. Use a pull request to publish the document with the version, status, revision and publish date, and immediately push a new version that removes or resets these parameters.
3. Don't put any of this state information in the document, use a build process to create it in the published specifications when the are published, tagged and rendered.

We agreed that the build process is probably the preferred solution. But due to how long it has taken us to get the OSLC OASIS Standards published, and the fact that we have been dealing with this issue without any real problem in the past, we agreed to option 1 for now, with the realization that we can always change in the future.

One note: it is porbably important that the version, status, revision and publish date are actually specified in the tagged authoratative source (even though it is also specified in the tag) and not just in the rendered HTML and PDF documents.


4. URL to the immutable, authoritative revision of PSD, PS, COS and OS specifications

Chet has agreed that the tagged GitHub URL to the HTML source is sufficient and should be included in the specification. Chet feels it is preferred that the authoritative version be the actual source and not a rendered version. The published instances in the OASIS document repository are the rendered versions.

For Example, the CM spec would have:
```
This version:
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/cm-v3.0-psd01/specs/cm/change-mgt-spec.html. (Authoritative Source)
```
where cm-v3.0-psd01 is the Git tag for the released document.

Minutes:

We agreed to this URI format, and that ReSpec would be updated to support it.

5. Where permanent links will be established to specifications.

The Project Specifications are for OASIS and under OASIS control as required by https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/open-projects-process. open-services.net is the OP home site but is not part of the standardization process. Links to specifications from open-services.net are a convenience to the broader OSLC community.

The TSC has complete control on where these redirects are hosted (e.g., open-services.net), the format of the URLs and what they redirect to. This should be independent of any links in the documents themselves that are under OASIS governance.

Once an open-servics.net redirect opens an actual specification, the reader will see the approprate this, previous and latest OASIS links.

See the discussion above regarding latest revision vs. latest version URLs. A note requesting clarification will be sent to OASIS. In the meantime, we will specify latest version URLs directly in the specification and not rely on ReSpec to generate them. This will provide necessary flexibility as this issue is resolved.

√6. Additional components URLs also need to be generated

```
    additionalArtifacts : [
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 1: Overview", href: "oslc-core.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 2: Discovery", href: "discovery.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 3: Resource Preview", href: "resource-preview.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 4: Delegated Dialogs", href: "dialogs.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 5: Attachments (this document)", href: "attachments.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 6: Resource Shape", href: "resource-shape.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 7: Vocabulary", href: "core-vocab.html" }
    ],
```
The href for additionalArtiacts can be relative links to the actual files. This works in rendered and unrendered specifications. Maybe we can just leave it like this to simplify things. If we want full URLs there, then ReSpec should take these relative URLs and add the rest based on the same calculations

We agged to just use the relative URLs consisting of the actual file names. This is simple, reliable, and just works.

Chet has agreed that these relative URIs for multi-part specification components is ok. But OASIS may  reject this when doing the PSD review. If they do, then we will need to update ReSpec to add the absolute URL path to the file names as was generated for the latest version URL.


- [x] Ballot [Submit OSLC CM 3.0 for publishing as PSD03](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/oslc-op-pgb/message/16?p=,,,20,0,0,0::created,,,20,2,0,6453) is still open and on three PDB members have voted.

Nick indicated he's not a PGB member. We noted that voting is different in Open Project than it was for OASIS TCs. Only the PGB members have voting privileges with respect to OASIS standards track documents. And there is still a member per company rule.

[Submit OSLC CM 3.0 for publishing as PSD03
](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/oslc-op-pgb/message/16?p=,,,20,0,0,0::created,,,20,2,0,6453) approved with 3 PGB votes.


We have some signific open issues that we should try to resolve:

- [ ] [RM vocab removes inverse properties](https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/86_) and related issues #53, #82 and #85 regarding RM vocabulary

Minutes:

We agreed that the RM 2.0 spec and published vocabulary need to be reconciled, likely with the spec being normative. We also agreed that any missing properties need to be added, and that "backlink" or reverse properties should probably be marked as deprecated.

However, we all agreed that we need Ian to provid definitive guidance on what to do.


- [ ] [OSLC Architecture Management spec does not define any relationships that connect Resource to the rest of the lifecycle domains](https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/69). The AM spec doesn't have much value without these links and does not reflect common practice.

We agreed that the current AM 2.1 spec is a good starting point, but it is sufficiently incomplete in its current for to not be worth progressing to an OASIS Standard. We need to look at the properties that were added to the draft AM 3.0 spec on open-services.net, and what has been implemented in practice, and develp an AM 3.0 spec that properly positions AM resources into the broader lifecycle management domain.

Jim has reviewed the old OSLC AM 3.0 draft, the Rational Design Manager vocabulary published on jazz.net/ns, and requested information about Rational Model Manager linking to CM, RM and QM resources. Once we gather all this information, we can hopefully be in a better possition to know how to proceed with the AM spec. We may need to consider AM version 3.0 because of these significant changes. Migrating the current AM 2.0 spec may not be worth it.


- [ ] We need to get the OSLC vocabularies and shapes published to open-services.net

## Dial-in details

Join meeting: https://meet.jit.si/oslc-op#config.startWithVideoMuted=true (works best in Chrome, unfortunately)

The meeting minutes are edited in https://hackmd.io/@driib/oslc-op-minutes/edit?both (this file). Previous minutes can be found under https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/tree/master/minutes/2019

One tap audio Dial In: +15124022718,,,,2979764690# (US) or +498938038719,,,,2979764690# (Germany)

Meeting ID: 2979764690#

Looking for a different dial in number? Please see: https://meet.jit.si/static/dialInInfo.html?room=oslc-op

**_Alternative call details in case of problems with Jitsi_**

Join Zoom Meeting
https://kth-se.zoom.us/j/590504943

One tap mobile
+46850539728,,590504943# Sweden
+46844682488,,590504943# Sweden

Dial by your location
        +46 850 539 728 Sweden
        +46 8 4468 2488 Sweden
        +1 408 638 0968 US (San Jose)
        +1 646 876 9923 US (New York)
        +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose)
        +49 30 3080 6188 Germany
        +49 30 5679 5800 Germany
        +49 69 7104 9922 Germany
        +33 7 5678 4048 France
        +33 1 7037 9729 France
        +44 203 051 2874 United Kingdom
        +44 203 481 5237 United Kingdom
        +44 203 966 3809 United Kingdom
        +44 131 460 1196 United Kingdom
Meeting ID: 590 504 943
Find your local number: https://zoom.us/u/aew3m6evrj

Join by SIP
590504943@109.105.112.236
590504943@109.105.112.235

Join by H.323
109.105.112.236
109.105.112.235
Meeting ID: 590 504 943

Join by Skype for Business (might not work depending on your organisation's settings for Skype for Business)
https://kth-se.zoom.us/skype/590504943

