# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Aug 8, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Nick Crossley, David Honey, Gray Bachelor, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2019/2019-08-01.md

## Minutes

### ReSpec

- [x] Address remaining issues prevent submission of OSLC specs as PSD revisions

There is a lot of specification editing and publishing work that needs to be done to get our current committee specifications republished as project specifications. The following issues are holding up this work. See Issue https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/issues/19.

- [x] We need to agree on the format of these URLs and how they will be generated

Version, status and revision are OASIS concepts used to identify specifications. PSD, PS, COS must have versions, and can all have revisions reflecting work by the PGB/TSC to address issues and/or feedback from reviews. An OS cannot have revisions, you have to create a new version to make any changes to an OASIS specification. These are all part of the title of the document, indicating to a reader the state of the specification and therefore how much they can rely on it.

ReSpec captures this information in the following respecConfig variables (using CM as an example):
~~~
shortName: "oslc-cm",
oslcVersion: "3.0",
specStatus: "PSD",
revision: "02",
publishDate: "2019-08-01", // The date the PGB vote to create the PSD closes
~~~
shortName, oslcVersion, specStatus and revision should be used to construct the document URLs published in the OASIS document library.

edDraftURI, thisVersion and latestVersion should be left blank in order for ReSpec to properly generate the document URLs.

- [ ] ReSpec is currently generating these URLs using open-services.net host instead of docs.oasis-open-project.net, and is using the label property instead of shortName, oslcVersion, specStatus and revision to construct URL path elements. We need to agree on and document what these URLs should be and what variables should be used to construct them.

ReSpec is currently using config.label to provide the document label and URI path entry as well as information in the document title. This requries information to be specified redundantly in the documents, and couples URL files names with document title content.

We agreed that ReSpec would generate the URIs, and it would use the specification version, specStatus, and revision properties to do so according to the format described in issue #19.

**This revision:** the OASIS URL for this published version, stage and revision of the specification. Generated by ReSpec from version, stage and revision config information.

**Previous revision:** The previous revision, the one published before this revision (if any). Added manually by the editor.

**Latest stage:** An OASIS link to the latest revision of the of the version of the specification.

**Latest version:** An open-services.net link to the latest published specification, regardless of version, stage and/or revision.

**Latest editor's draft:** link to source in GitHub.

There is some risk in generating all these URLs since it is unclear if OASIS has finalized their naming conventions. If this becomes a common problem, we can enter the URLs manually to match OASIS requirements, and edit ReSpec as needed once this has stabelized.

- [x] Regarding the specification of these version, status, revision and publish dates in the document: we all agree that once a document has been published and tagged, these properties in the document are essentially out of date - they are only accurate for the actual tagged version.

There are three ways to address this issue:
1. Don't worry about it, HEAD on master alwasy represents work in progress, only the tagged versions represent specific document states and revisions and are preserved by Git.
2. Use a pull request to publish the document with the version, status, revision and publish date, and immediately push a new version that removes or resets these parameters. When the pull request has been completed to publish a revision of a specification, this should be followed by a pull request to set the stage to WD and bump the revision number by 1 to accurately reflect the state of the document. This can be done on the first commit after publishing.
3. Don't put any of this state information in the document, use a build process to create it in the published specifications when the are published, tagged and rendered.

We agreed that the build process is probably the preferred solution. But due to how long it has taken us to get the OSLC OASIS Standards published, and the fact that we have been dealing with this issue without any real problem in the past, we agreed to option 1 for now, with the realization that we can always change in the future.

One note: it is porbably important that the version, status, revision and publish date are actually specified in the tagged authoratative source (even though it is also specified in the tag) and not just in the rendered HTML and PDF documents.

We agreed on option 2.


√4. URL to the immutable, authoritative revision of PSD, PS, COS and OS specifications

Chet has agreed that the tagged GitHub URL to the HTML source is sufficient and should be included in the specification. Chet feels it is preferred that the authoritative version be the actual source and not a rendered version. The published instances in the OASIS document repository are the rendered versions.

For Example, the CM spec would have:
```
This version:
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/cm-v3.0-psd01/specs/cm/change-mgt-spec.html. (Authoritative Source)
```
where cm-v3.0-psd01 is the Git tag for the released document.

Minutes:

We agreed to this URI format, and that ReSpec would be updated to support it.

√5. Where permanent links will be established to specifications.

The Project Specifications are for OASIS and under OASIS control as required by https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/open-projects-process. open-services.net is the OP home site but is not part of the standardization process. Links to specifications from open-services.net are a convenience to the broader OSLC community.

The TSC has complete control on where these redirects are hosted (e.g., open-services.net), the format of the URLs and what they redirect to. This should be independent of any links in the documents themselves that are under OASIS governance.

Once an open-servics.net redirect opens an actual specification, the reader will see the approprate this, previous and latest OASIS links.

See the discussion above regarding latest revision vs. latest version URLs. A note requesting clarification will be sent to OASIS. In the meantime, we will specify latest version URLs directly in the specification and not rely on ReSpec to generate them. This will provide necessary flexibility as this issue is resolved.

√6. Additional components URLs also need to be generated

```
    additionalArtifacts : [
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 1: Overview", href: "oslc-core.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 2: Discovery", href: "discovery.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 3: Resource Preview", href: "resource-preview.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 4: Delegated Dialogs", href: "dialogs.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 5: Attachments (this document)", href: "attachments.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 6: Resource Shape", href: "resource-shape.html" },
      { title: "OSLC Core Version 3.0. Part 7: Vocabulary", href: "core-vocab.html" }
    ],
```
The href for additionalArtiacts can be relative links to the actual files. This works in rendered and unrendered specifications. Maybe we can just leave it like this to simplify things. If we want full URLs there, then ReSpec should take these relative URLs and add the rest based on the same calculations

We agged to just use the relative URLs consisting of the actual file names. This is simple, reliable, and just works.

Chet has agreed that these relative URIs for multi-part specification components is ok. But OASIS may  reject this when doing the PSD review. If they do, then we will need to update ReSpec to add the absolute URL path to the file names as was generated for the latest version URL.

### Domain spec issues

**We have some signific open issues that we should try to resolve:**

- [ ] [RM vocab removes inverse properties](https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/86_) and related issues #53, #82 and #85 regarding RM vocabulary

Minutes:

We agreed that the RM 2.0 spec and published vocabulary need to be reconciled, likely with the spec being normative. We also agreed that any missing properties need to be added, and that "backlink" or reverse properties should probably be marked as deprecated.

However, we all agreed that we need Ian to provid definitive guidance on what to do.

> see https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/86#issuecomment-513145993


- [ ] [OSLC Architecture Management spec does not define any relationships that connect Resource to the rest of the lifecycle domains](https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/69). The AM spec doesn't have much value without these links and does not reflect common practice.

We agreed that the current AM 2.1 spec is a good starting point, but it is sufficiently incomplete in its current for to not be worth progressing to an OASIS Standard. We need to look at the properties that were added to the draft AM 3.0 spec on open-services.net, and what has been implemented in practice, and develp an AM 3.0 spec that properly positions AM resources into the broader lifecycle management domain.

Jim has reviewed the old OSLC AM 3.0 draft, the Rational Design Manager vocabulary published on jazz.net/ns, and requested information about Rational Model Manager linking to CM, RM and QM resources. Once we gather all this information, we can hopefully be in a better possition to know how to proceed with the AM spec. We may need to consider AM version 3.0 because of these significant changes. Migrating the current AM 2.0 spec may not be worth it.

Nick is not convinced we should add any of these properties, as it seems orthogonal to a spec migration problem.


- [ ] We need to get the OSLC vocabularies and shapes published to open-services.net

### CSS changes

This is what Nick should incorporate in ReSpec:

```css
#respecHeader dd {
  margin-left: 0;
}

#respecHeader dt.loc-heading {
  font-weight: 700;
}

h1, h2, h3, h4 {
  color: #446CAA;
}
```

## Actions

- [ ] Nick to review PR
- [ ] Jim to publish vote tally
- [ ] Andrew to make further changes to ReSpec
- [ ] Andrew to make further changes to CM
- [ ] Jim to open a PS ballot for CM

---

## Dial-in details

Join meeting: https://meet.jit.si/oslc-op#config.startWithVideoMuted=true (works best in Chrome, unfortunately)

The meeting minutes are edited in https://hackmd.io/@driib/oslc-op-minutes/edit?both (this file). Previous minutes can be found under https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/tree/master/minutes/2019

One tap audio Dial In: +15124022718,,,,2979764690# (US) or +498938038719,,,,2979764690# (Germany)

Meeting ID: 2979764690#

Looking for a different dial in number? Please see: https://meet.jit.si/static/dialInInfo.html?room=oslc-op

**_Alternative call details in case of problems with Jitsi_**

Join Zoom Meeting
https://kth-se.zoom.us/j/590504943

One tap mobile
+46850539728,,590504943# Sweden
+46844682488,,590504943# Sweden

Dial by your location
        +46 850 539 728 Sweden
        +46 8 4468 2488 Sweden
        +1 408 638 0968 US (San Jose)
        +1 646 876 9923 US (New York)
        +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose)
        +49 30 3080 6188 Germany
        +49 30 5679 5800 Germany
        +49 69 7104 9922 Germany
        +33 7 5678 4048 France
        +33 1 7037 9729 France
        +44 203 051 2874 United Kingdom
        +44 203 481 5237 United Kingdom
        +44 203 966 3809 United Kingdom
        +44 131 460 1196 United Kingdom
Meeting ID: 590 504 943
Find your local number: https://zoom.us/u/aew3m6evrj

Join by SIP
590504943@109.105.112.236
590504943@109.105.112.235

Join by H.323
109.105.112.236
109.105.112.235
Meeting ID: 590 504 943

Join by Skype for Business (might not work depending on your organisation's settings for Skype for Business)
https://kth-se.zoom.us/skype/590504943

