# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Dec 19, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, Gray Bachelor, Nick Crossley.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2019/2019-12-12.md


## Pending actions

- [ ] David: complete Query Spec updates
- [ ] Andrew: QM PSD published
- [ ] Nick: NS URIs
- [ ] Nick: TRS committed WD
- [ ] Jim: schedule Core PSD04 publish vote
- [ ] David: propose any changes to Core for RDF serialization format.

## Agenda

- OSLC Config-Management publication (Andrew)
- Realistic work allocation (Jim)
- OSLC QM Published
- Progress on Query updates
- Progress on Core for publish
- Progress on TRS WD
- Discussion on direction for AM 2.1 vs. 3.0 spec


## Minutes

QM PSD is not done yet. Remove link to previous CS that was never publishsed. Add references in additional content to turtle files. 

Send email for Core PSD vote approved tomorrow, tag and send zip to OASIS.

Client guidance on RDF resource representation. Some non-normative text for guidence has been developed in the past in the specs. This helps people reading the specs and developing implementations understanding the intention of the normative content. 

See issue https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/200.

See issue https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/17 and the minutes from the previous meeting. 


### TRS



### QM spec



### CfgM spec

- Andrew suggests to exchange meeting attendance for document editorship to have each active OP member push one PSD at a given time.
- Gray is interested in CfgM but has overwhelming committments till Jan'20.

### AM Spec


## Next actions

- [ ] David will provide a concrete proposal for guidance around RDF/XML and Turtle resource representations, Accept header and compatibility for section 4.4 of oslc-core.html
- [ ] David will develop a use case for how a service provider could discover query capabilities on other service providers in order to deal with service providers that have a very large number of service, or service provider catalogs that have a very large number of service providers that can not be effectively inlined. See https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-specs/issues/17
