# OSLC OP Meeting minutes (Oct 24, 2019)

**Chairs:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi

**Attendees:** Jim Amsden, Andrew Berezovskyi, Jad El-khoury, David Honey, Gray Bachelor.

**Previous minutes:** https://github.com/oslc-op/oslc-admin/blob/master/minutes/2019/2019-10-10.md

## Agenda

- [ ] TRS (Andrew)
- [ ] RM spec (Jad)
- [ ] Prioritize the work to match available resources (Jim)
- [ ] open-services.net/ns vocabulary links from Nick (Andrew)

## Actions

TBD

## Minutes

### TRS

- Jad is using TRS in his work.
- RELM is a view over LQE. LQE is a TRS consumer over multiple apps including Report Builder and provides a SPARQL endpoint.
- IBM is constrained by the consistency issues.
- KTH introduces a strongly sequential `trs:sequentialOrder` that gets ordered via a Redis atomic increment (up to 200k ops/s on commodity HW according to public benchmarks).
- Proposal to merge Creation and Modification events because some apps do not persist a log and as a result, multiple Creation events can be created.
- Uniquely ascending order is a good thing, but consumers shall be tolerant to the log snapshots "1,2,3,5" followed by "1,2,3,4,5".

### RM spec

- Paul gave us a diff, Andrew shares it with Jad and he applies it
- Andrew asks for a delay in publication, we will provide the right draft _again_.

### CfgM spec

- Andrew suggests to exchange meeting attendance for document editorship to have each active OP member push one PSD at a given time.
- Gray is interested in CfgM but has overwhelming committments till Jan'20.
